
# GWAS of glycosuria

## Common variation on chromosome 16 is associated with glycosuria in pregnancy: Findings from a genome-wide association study in European women.

Citation:
â€¦..

<img src="./manuscript/figures/Figure 1. Manhattan plot of a GWAS of self-reported glycosuria in the third trimester of pregnancy in ALSPAC.png" alt="Figure 1. Manhattan plot of a GWAS of self-reported glycosuria in the third trimester of pregnancy in ALSPAC">
Figure 1. Manhattan plot of a GWAS of self-reported glycosuria in the
third trimester of pregnancy in ALSPAC

### Summary

#### Repo

This GitHub repo hosts all scripts used in the analysis for the paper of
a GWAS of glycosuria. It also hosts a copy of the manuscript, figures,
tables and supplementary material.

In order to reproduce this analysis you will need access to the Avon
Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children as well as the Northern
Finnish Birth Cohort 1986

  - [ALSPAC](http://www.bristol.ac.uk/alspac/researchers/access/)
  - [NFBC1986](http://www.bristol.ac.uk/alspac/researchers/access/)

##### Scripts

  - All of the scripts use relative file paths - `./my/file/path` -
    where `./` is the directory `001_glycosuria_GWAS` from which I run
    all scripts.
  - I used Terminal on a Mac to run all of the scripts - the scripts
    were run on the University of Bristol High Performance Computer,
    BlueCrystal 3

#### Paper

Clinically relevant levels of glucose in urine (glycosuria) during
pregnancy are associated with adverse outcomes in pregnancy and later
life. Studies of genetic contributions to glycosuria are important to
understand aetiology and consider overlap with diabetes and renal
function related traits but have been limited by available data.

Self-reported glycosuria during pregnancy and associated genetic data is
uncommon. Direct, and therefore clinically-relevant, measurements of
glycosuria and associated genetic data is rarer. We identified two
studies with self-reported glycosuria and available genetic data, but
only one study with a clinically relevant measure of glycosuria and
associated genetic data.

In this study we have undertaken a genome-wide association study (GWAS)
of glycosuria in pregnancy to identify genetic variants associated with
glucose in urine during pregnancy and to provide greater understanding
of disease development, progression and related complications. We have
also examined the genetic overlap between glycosuria and multiple
diabetes-related traits.

We used mothers from the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children
(ALSPAC; case/control = 1,249/5,140). We have looked for confirmatory
evidence of association signals in the only data set with similar
measured phenotypes, mothers from the Northern Finnish Birth Cohort 1986
(NFBC1986; case/control = 747/2,991).

In ALSPAC we have identified an association with glycosuria that
persisted in NFBC1986. In ALSPAC, the point estimate was stronger when
defining glycosuria by clinically-relevant and objectively measured
glycosuria. The association is upstream of the target of the gliflozin
class of antidiabetic drugs, SLC5A2. We also found evidence of genetic
correlation between glycosuria and urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio
and weaker evidence of correlation with type 2 diabetes. Overlap of
glycosuria and diabetes and glycemic traits suggests similar aetiology
and is consistent with glycosuria being driven by circulating blood
glucose and renal function.
